# French-English_Translation_Referencing_Tool
A simple Python GUI tool to find the page of a French phrase in the English version.

When translating a document from French to English, references have to correspond to the translated version if they exist. However, the position of the quotation in the translation can be completely different (e.g. statement on page 1 in the French version could be on page 300 in the English version). This tool produces top 5 pages in order from most likely to match to least likely to match. The tool was tested on 53 political thought references; in all cases, the right page was found in the top 5 results generated by the app. Moreover, the first result was the correct one for over 70% of the cases.

## Algorithm

The app is coded using python. First, it translates the pages from French to English using the googletrans python package. Then, it breaks down the sentence to the corresponding words and search for each word in the book. Finally, pages are ranked by most matches (highest) confidence and top 5 results are presented in a messagebox.

## How to use the app

Simply browse the English reference, type the French quotation, and then press the 'search' button.

## Setup

PyInstaller package was used to generate a .exe file and an installer was for the app was created using Inno Setup. You can simply download the app using the setup file; however, you will have to override windows safety warnings as the app is not licensed. Otherwise, you can always run the GUI through Python.
